Liverpool are reportedly monitoring Chelsea loanee Marko Marin and will "consider" making a bid for him in the summer.

That's according to Italian outlet Calciomercato (h/t Aaron Flanagan of the Mirror), which reported the Reds could be set to offer the 26-year-old a lifeline after his failure to break into the team at Stamford Bridge.

The German is on loan at Turkish club Trabzonspor—his fourth temporary team in as many years since joining Chelsea in 2012, with spells at Sevilla, Fiorentina and Anderlecht also under his belt.

Marin has thus far had a fairly successful time in Turkey, scoring two goals and assisting three more in 907 minutes of action in the Super Lig, per Transfermarkt.

The attacking midfielder is capable of playing centrally or on the right wing. According to Bleacher Report's Jack Lusby, Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp recognises the Reds' need for a player in the latter position—though Lusby believes Liverpool loanee Lazar Markovic or Valencia's Sofiane Feghouli could fit the bill:

Journalist Kristof Terreur is highly doubtful the rumour linking Marin with Liverpool has any merit:

Indeed, it would make far more sense to utilise Markovic once he returns from his loan spell—also in Turkey, with Fenerbahce—as he has had a similar season and is five years younger than Marin, or bring in Feghouli, who has emerged as one of Europe's most exciting wide men.

It seems highly unlikely Liverpool would pursue a player who has made just 79 appearances since 2012 and only 16 for Chelsea.

Ringo H.W. Chiu/Associated Press

In other news, Reds legend Steven Gerrard has admitted this season with L.A. Galaxy could be his last. He wrote in his new column for the Telegraph on Friday:

    Nothing is 100 per cent certain yet, but this season...could be my last as a professional footballer.

    I know I’m in the twilight of my career. I am starting my UEFA 'A' license shortly and the Football Association are proving to be proactive and hugely encouraging in helping former players onto the coaching ladder.

As Liam Spence of the Express noted, that would naturally prevent him from a sensational return to Liverpool—as a player, at least.

Despite being set to turn 36 in May, his stature at Anfield ensures he'd always be welcomed back by the Reds. However, not bringing him back could prove a blessing in disguise—Liverpool struggled on the pitch in his final months at the club possibly, in part, as a result of the distraction his drawn-out departure caused.

Liverpool fans will no doubt welcome the news he's eager to pursue a career in coaching, though, as this means he could write a new chapter in his Anfield fairytale as a manager.
